do you really think I was deliberately
partti and breaking the rules but it's
all about leading by example ISM sorry
but to say it was a party is a complete
travesty seeing that photo when one of
my friends can go to their grandmother's
funeral is the most enraging thing I
think all Gatherings should have been
Bann at number 10 because I think what
do you mean Gatherings Gatherings with
alcohol and music and Cake you should
never have allowed that to happen I
apologize for that Johnson the former
prime minister of the UK whose Reign
included brexit Co and the Ukraine war
he's one of the world's most famous
politicians on this point of brexit how
did David Cameron react when you said
you're going to vote leave he said if
you come out and support leave I will
you up forever but if you support remain
you can have a top five job in the
cabinet but is that not a bit corrupt
and is that how the jobs are dished out
in the government at the moment look I'm
sad to say that this probably been the
way politics has been since the dawn of
time and then this letter you wrote
about the decision to leave or stay
within the EU which was unpublished you
seemed torn so do do you regret brexit
well the next big thing was the pandemic
there was a lot of stuff we we didn't
know I I think almost certainly was a
lab accident they they were looking at
engineering viruses and ways that they
could manipulate it sadly something went
wrong when you talk about lockdowns you
refer to them as Bonkers which is
strange hearing it from the guy that put
the rules in place well did the benefits
of lockdown outweigh the very very
severe Damage Done to kids what do you
think the answer to that question is
honestly I think I just wanted to ask a
few more things Trump or camalo who's
the best for international relations how
many kids do you have Charlotte Owen
you're not related to you and then you
have quite a distinct Persona people
describe you as being a buffoon when I
first saw you I thought you were a
parody from Bose selector is it
calculated well to get people's interest
in politics you got a sugar the pill but
also your mother said you had certain
mechanisms to cope with pain because
your mother is sent to a psychiatric
facility when you were 10 I read There
was physical violence in the house and
then at 14 your parents get divorced yes
we were in Somerset my father told us
and I was look I was cross and said you
know so so why did you have us
then you
know
[Music]
um this has always blown my mind a
little bit 53% of you that listen to the
show regularly haven't yet subscribed to
the show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guests that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
[Music]
much
Boris Ste what do I need to understand
about your earliest years to understand
the man that you are today I think
the key
thing is
my
wonderful happy very kind of paginating
childhood um in the company of my
siblings the key fact was that after a
18 months of existence my sister Rachel
was born and ever after it was just a
constant struggle to
keep the the pretense of Primacy with my
with my siblings but I think it's it is
probably true to say that
healthy
incessant
sibling interaction competition whatever
you want to call it
rivalry um definitely played a part in
my formation and we used to make fun of
it too we used to think it was rather
pathetic we all knew that there was a
culture of trying to win so we used to
say oh little baby wants to win and so
we were kind of we competed but we
also deprecated the the competition at
that age um say before the age of 10 how
does that manifest in terms of a feeling
because you can in hindsight say okay I
was competitive but how did it feel you
know CU you it felt like fun but but
this idea that Rachel came along and
then you were vying for attention and
competition with her how did how does
that feel when you're under the age of
10 because your your your father at
least was very very busy as a man so I'm
presuming he wasn't necessarily so
present um I was reading you moved house
32 times in 14 years yeah but that okay
I mean he was
um but really I think I you know I speak
for all of my siblings now when I say
that you really couldn't have had a more
loving caring you know they they both of
them I mean you they're both very busy
both my mother and father mother was
painter um my father yeah writer did a
huge number of things but they did
invest a lot of time in US I mean really
a lot it sounded like you had a rough
sort of first 10 years of life because
you also had glue ear which is uh which
made you deaf a little yes well I don't
know I think we need to look very care
the I I definitely had adenoids and I
had tonsilitis and I spent a lot of time
in s Barts and had my adenoids out my T
and everything like that and I did have
glue here but it but my my my
deafness there's no trace of it now
particularly and I kind of wonder
whether it was in fact
a a a cunning means to avoid my mother's
questions and I I think look I mean I
don't know it may be that I wasn't as
deaf as as all that you know what I mean
would you ever do that if your mother
was asking you something you didn't
actually want to engage and I don't
think I'm that coming you what I mean
not at8 years
old your mother Charlotte um she had
four children you were the oldest of
those four
um she seems to be a really important
character in your life In fact when I
opened up the first couple of pages of
the book you you dedicate the book in
memory of of Charlotte your mother I do
she was an artist she had many paint
paintings of of of her children but also
other things I saw some of those
paintings I did some research on those
paintings um but one of the sort of
really pivotal moments in her OT
bringing is that she suffered from
obsessive compulsive disorder she did
yeah you're what 10 years old when your
mother is an uh put as an impatient in a
Psy psychiatric hospital and you're
apart for eight months something like
that yes what what impact does that have
on you in terms of
shaping shaping the Boris that we know
today if
any I mean I remember it all very very
well
and it's hard to say exactly what impact
it it had on me but I think
what certainly happened was that all
four of us all four of the children that
um that my mother had we definitely
kind of coagulated as a as a group
because it was a tough time there were
well there were aspects of that were
were tough because you know she she
wasn't always there and so I think it
did breed a certain kind of group
solidarity and she always kind of blamed
herself for not being there for the8
months whatever period it was and I I
remember feeling very strongly that that
was unfair and on and that
she actually you know did an amazing job
and you know you couldn't you couldn't
have asked for more did you notice her
anything unusual about her behavior
before she was yes so the OCD thing is
absolutely right she did have that and
you know it was it was very difficult
and I'm sure people who are watching
this know exactly what it is but she
lots of
different patterns of behavior one of
the one of them was was about ESS so so
so the so the she she wash her
hands and then um she she would realize
in order to turn the tap off she'd have
to touch the the the foret the spiger
and and and she didn't want to do that
because that would make her hands dirty
again she thought but you know this is a
very well-known symptom and she and she
totally got over it I she totally got
over it she got through it why was she
sent to a psychiatric facility
um well I guess because she's I
think that's a JT good question I don't
know really know the answer I think I
think
she
probably said that she thought she could
benefit
from
therapy
and that's what she and my father
decided to was a best way forward but I
I I honestly don't know the answer to
that and who looked after you while she
was in that facility at 10 years old
well my father was there and we had uh a
wonderful series of opair girls and
nannies and and so on and so forth and
at 14 years old they they were all great
too but you know I don't I don't you
know I don't want to give the impression
which would not be fair that my mother
kind of um was
absent for long periods or wasn't a a
presence in our lives because she really
was it was more her words I saw her
doing an interview where she was talking
about um her belief that you had certain
mechanisms to cope with the pain of her
going to the facility for eight months
but then also the divorce when you were
14 I thought those ages that sort of
puberty age where you're figuring
yourself
out to get such a jolt of bad news is
yeah I think that's I mean classically
yes and look I'm not going to I think
you're on to it you you know there's
there's there was an element of of
self-defense that then that you know
many kids in in my our position then
develop um but I do insist that they
both remained remarkable parents we know
it wasn't like we were suddenly cut a
drift but by either of them on the
contrary
self-defense well yeah I don't know I
mean I'm quoting her on on me by the way
so I'm quoting I'm quoting you qu
quoting her um you there so you yeah but
I mean you know I don't it didn't it
didn't occur to me at the time yeah I
don't think it can for a 14-year-old but
in hindsight as an as a man you go okay
that was I create a p know but I mean
but
maybe I I've got nothing else to compare
it to right um you know you're growing
up anyway you're becoming more
self-reliant you got to do things to
yourself um so I think so go back to
where it was with my my brothers and
sisters I think certainly you know it
was another thing that drove us all
together why self-defense and how did
that self-defense manifest in terms of
behavior I
just I'd be the worst type of um what
let me think well how did I how did I
how how did my self-defense manifest I
suppose I
became yes unquestionably it was
painful so how did I protect myself
against that well one obvious thing to
do which I suppose we all do and I think
I found the best therapy for every type
of pain emotional
pain is to try to Lose Yourself in your
work emotional pain is is about a lot
about it's about self-esteem so so like
with when when when parents split up um
you know the shock is well you you can't
love us that much but if you're doing
this right that's the that's the what
it's all about which is not true of
course but that's what the children
that's what children feel they feel it's
their failure there's something wrong
with
them and that's not true but that's how
kids feel I suppose to protect myself
against that like I had a natural Avenue
for to build up
my self-esteem and that was academic
work um that kind of thing but again you
know another I suppose another type of
of competition and it I'm it is a good
therapy work is a work is a is a great
reliever or distraction
well depends on your sort of theory of
psychology but
um I think it
both both why did they divorce do you
know I think formerly speaking what had
happened was that um you know my mother
has simply decided she wanted to make
another life and and she you know she
she found someone wonderful and and all
all the rest of it um
but I think that my father um
and and
mother the weird thing about their
divorce was that they both continued to
be very strongly affectionate towards
each other
and you know I'm again I'm not trying to
minimize
the psychological importance of any of
this stuff for us as as
kids but that was immensely fortifying
because it was so obvious that it wasn't
like they were at War I mean you know
they had a big bus stops but it was we
felt that there was a
real residue of of love and affection
between them even if even if it was I
mean I think the way the way we
explained it to ourselves was that there
was still a residue of love and
affection but that it was just
practically impossible for them to to
continue and so that was that was how we
rationalized it and um they both found
other people and and and were very happy
you you say Bust ups that from
everything that I've read There was
physical violence in the household when
you were
younger yeah well this is this is
something that um has been alleged by uh
sadly by one of my biographers um so
sort of pomping to say one of my
biographers um some guy wrote a book um
and put that stuff in you know what I
can tell you is I have no direct
knowledge of of what he said um I don't
want to get into it because I don't want
to be disrespectful to my mother's
memory and I I certainly don't want to
say anything that would cause pain or
embarrassment to my father so but I can
what I can say is I had as a child no
direct knowledge of it myself what did
um their relationship teach you that
marriage and love
was
they they they so they met at
University um they clearly loved each
other and I think if you ask my siblings
they'll they'll they'll tell you
that so that you know it was upsetting
when when they split up because do you
remember the day they told you they yeah
yeah I do I do I do I do it was it was
uh we were we were in we were in
Somerset and my father said that we all
had to go and and up by the the the gate
towards the engine shed so he went and
stood by the gate towards the engine
shed and and we were told this you know
sad news what did he say I don't
remember exactly I don't remember
exactly but I was look I was cross and
and and said you know so so why did you
have us then because I thought
well you
know um
as you know I
think it is upsetting
and kids do take you know kids take it
upon themselves right and so they do
they do think that there must be some
fault or mistake in that in
themselves and that isn't that isn't
true I mean you know you
it's very important for kids not to
blame themselves for for these things
and I think
that it's you know back to the point I
was making earlier on with you
um I
think you know you do need
to feed the
the your
self-esteem and you need to get yourself
back up again and so work was my it was
my way of doing it I I could see the um
the emotion in your face when you talk
about that moment as if you were
teleported back to that moment for a
second
yeah yeah I mean it may look I the the
actual the truth is I'm I'm now told in
retrospect that that is what I said I
don't personally remember it you
remember how it
feels yeah but look I mean yes but I
really wouldn't want to over egg it
because my parents were incred kind to
each other after that you know when you
do this and you throw the the coal in
the air I was just stoking the fness of
my of my self-esteem yeah yeah you um
you have quite a distinct Persona you're
I mean much of where you sort of first
came to public knowledge was on the TV
show have I got news for you yeah I know
I think the BBC very they live in
permanent state of horror about what
they did that because you know I think
that's one of the reasons that that they
I think they they have a terrible sense
of corporate guilt that they Unleashed
this thing
is is there a link between your persona
comedic kind of you know people often
describe you as being a bit of a buffoon
I actually thought you were a this is
just being honest because I feel like
it's important to be honest to someone
if you've said it behind their back but
I when I first saw you on the screen I
was a very young man I must have been I
don't know 14 and I thought you were a
parody from Bo selector like I thought I
thought you were I thought it was a
parody but then I came to learn you know
when you did the London May thing ET
that you were a politician and who you
were and where you'd come from but the
out the out external person is very
atypical of a politician right and your
general comedic sense that shows up in
the book a lot um you were very comedic
on have I got news how I have I got news
for you um is that at all linked when
when did that behavior show up because
there was two points of reference that I
was mulling one is things your sister
said about where you sort of learned
that comedy was a useful device um and
the second one is something Jimmy Carr
actually said to me he said to me that
um he goes if you ever meet anyone
comedic or a comedian don't ask them if
they're depressed ask them which one of
their parents they were trying to cheer
up or win favor from and I I wondered if
all yeah and I think I don't know I I
think that um one of the things I've
tried to do in politics is to get people
interested and one of the things I'm
trying to do and Unleashed which is
unquestionably a a mixture there's a lot
of serious argument in it but also I'm
trying to tell the story in as readable
a way as possible and you have to you
have to
use you got to Sugar the pill you've got
to so it's like it's like a it's like a
packet of uh of digestive biscuits MH um
if you've got to have so each of the
chapters uh has a uh some solid you know
wheat germ pabulum but it's covered with
some a little layer of chocolate did you
so say you you go down you go down the
packet compulsively and each of those 60
chapters I think there are 60 chapters
in that book is designed to give you a
bit of both so are you the pill that was
sugared you sugared yourself no well I
it's well I know there are it's the fact
of the great things that I think that we
did we know we took back control of our
of our country we we had a we we went
for a type of Independence that people
thought was impossible no I'm
spefic complicated arguments about um
Middle East about as a as a as a guide
to the last 15 years in in politics I
think it's it's pretty useful but I mean
I worked in marketing for about 15 years
so I find it quite fascinating that
right now in the world it seems that
there's a certain type of atypical
personality that's breaking through and
being
resident is your persona
a carefully constructed marketing
strategy or is because someone someone
that knows you referred to as a bit of a
loner in private and a quite quiet
person yeah no no I I live I so I'm very
I have a wonderful life um I I spend my
time I I do a lot of painting um I I do
a lot of reading and writing um I mck
around mck around with my kids it
doesn't take much to you know my cup to
run over with with with happiness but
you know all this stuff
like yeah but I know but that's I've got
I've always had a lot of energy but I've
always had a lot you understand that
that's part of your persona right well
am I supposed to do about that but I'm
trying to understand is it calculated is
it something that you've you've thought
about and you understand is effective
because they describe you as being one
of the best sort of election winners of
our of our time I think what people will
I don't know I mean what people will
also say is that um
I haven't really
changed I mean you know going back to
your earlier earlier line of question I
can see where you're going with this
you're saying as part of the strategy
for defense do we adopt comedic Persona
or or or whatever was um I don't think
that was I think it was just with my
brothers and sisters in our family there
was a kind of horror of of you know
being dull or not saying anything you
know we we had to you know we all had to
amuse each each other why
that was really really polite
I you know because it was more fun your
brothers and sisters are less amusing
than you are I wouldn't say
that that's a very controversial thing
to say you would say that I would no I
would not say that you would say that
who I would say that yeah you think Leo
have you met my brother Leo no I've not
met well then you got to get Leo on this
show but your sister my brother Joe yes
you met my brother
Jo no look honestly there's a serious uh
risk of of
uh we had a wonderful childhood because
and they wouldn't deny this because we
all you know we had a lot of fun trying
to interest and amuse each other and and
and and to your point probably our
parents as well CU your sister that's
not to say that we were we were you know
we didn't we didn't do kind of shards
and and Christmas masks and and plays
and and God knows what jery Corbin said
Boris is a calculated intelligent who
lives in a Persona which is the
opposite is that TR at
all
um no I I mean I I think that I I wish
you were true in some ways but I don't
I because most of your most you videos
on YouTube are you tackling a small
child we thing rugby and by the way by
the way he he he would I reckon he could
be much older than he looked you know
the guy in Japan the kid you tackled the
kid in Japan the one I accidentally
knocked over in Japan they're all comedy
videos yeah he he
anyway Eon it's pretty crazy she went to
Eaton at 13 years old it's the crazy
thing for me is that approximately 20 of
the 57 individuals who have served as
prime minister went to Eon which is
roughly 35% of the UK prime ministers
were educated at Eaton roughly yeah this
for me when I read that I go something's
broken here because for one school to
contribute so many of the most powerful
people in in the land feels like a
little bit of like someone's got their
hands on the scale or there's some kind
of that's why you need to read level
read the book because the book contains
this is the whole theme of the book
right not the whole theme of the book
it's one of the major themes of the book
it's about leveling up yeah and if if
you remember what I say about I don't
know whether you got through that bit
but I so I went there on a scholarship
and it was fantastic I was very lucky I
was I was paid for by the by Henry V 6
oh the legacy of Henry V 6 and I
remember feeling this
incredible sense
of
Amazement
that there were kids from some of the
most famous illustrious families in in
Britain uh who plainly didn't have you
know much um intellectual interest
academic you know Spark
in them and and kidss who'd come from
backgrounds all over the
country who were incredible and I and my
my insight at school very very very
young was that this there's there's a
fundamental problem which is that there
is ambition and energy and genius and
talent probably completely evenly
distributed throughout the UK
population
and opportunity is not yeah I
and that is the problem and that is the
basic problem with our country and this
country has more potential arguably than
any other major European economy because
it's so imbalanced and if you look at
the the propon schools like mine p in
London in the Southeast in the UK
economy it's actually unlike France
Germany Italy Holland it's also totally
unlike the United
States and so
I I decided very early on that the
that there was massive massive wasted
potential and so one of the so when I
became mayor of
London one of my biggest projects was
really the biggest thing we did was
really all about trying to lift the the
the burrow that people said were were
locked in a permanent cycle of
disadvantage and and you know you know
what I mean the inner the inner donut of
London hne where you know all that and
and it was total rubbish total rubbish
and you you can change
people's aspirations but you can then
also change uh the culture of of
achievement
and and I saw it happen in London and I
was only mayor for eight years but in
that period you really did see the city
change in in you know quite a
significant way and and I believe very
very strongly that that is fundamentally
what needs to happen in the whole of the
UK and and I think that this is the job
of politic I don't care whether they're
labor or conservative or whoever I think
that that is that is what we need to to
be doing and I think there are very
simple ingredients that polit there's
not there's limits to what politicians
can do but there are some simple things
that politicians need to be doing to to
make that happen has the conservative
government done well enough at leveling
up the the whole of the UK over the last
decade uh obviously not because it's not
happening f it is I mean it is happening
leveling up is happening but if you look
at the but it's nothing like fast enough
yeah
and you know so you know AB I was proud
of doing things like um rolling out
gigabit Broadband from you know 7 to 70%
69 70% of of households in in 3 years
which is not not bad going I was proud
of all the infrastructure stuff we were
we were doing I think it's a mistake to
to stop
that
infrastructure is crucial
[Music]
for leveling up transport infrastructure
is a great is a great equalizer of
opportunity so things like hs2 Northern
Powerhouse
rail we should be going on with those in
in my view and um you know whatever my
my defects as a politician I think one
thing I was good at was getting a lot of
stuff done fast and get and and driving
and driving project projects but the
problem is Eaton Eaton was to back to
your
question that youthful
experience
was I I was also at Primary School in in
London and I really really decided that
this was because I think our country has
this
problem worse than most other most
comparable countries but if you think
how if you think of how strong the UK
economy already
is then imagine what we could achieve if
we leveled up right do you know this
this stat around Eon that 20 out of the
57 individuals who've served as prime
minister came from there isn't that just
the clearest example of the fact that it
is yeah the people that are coming into
politics but also generally the people
that are getting to the top in society
are starting with a unfair advantage to
some
degree I well I think what it shows is
that I mean you probably point to
cultures like France or wherever where
you know the a lot of the the country is
run by the um the the people from the
the the Great Schools um but yeah I mean
fundamentally yes that's I think that
the so so the great the great choice for
for anybody who's interested in public
policy is well okay this is a this is
clearly clearly a problem uh it's
clearly wrong uh it's clearly imbalanced
what do you do uh do you set out to
launch a kind of cultural assault um
Paul pot Style on the successful
institutions or do you say actually what
we're going to do is try to spread
opportunity so it's more like America
and and if you look at
America you the growth rates are
spectacularly outperformed European
growth rates there's a different sense
people have a different sense of what
they can do and we need to have a we
need to have a a culture in the UK where
people don't feel prisoners of their
geography of their background that
certainly is the case isn't it at the
moment in the UK too much the case I
mean it's less it's less than it was I
went undercover I went undercover in a
school in Liverpool that was very poorly
ranked on the offed rankings and I
remember being in that school and just
thinking how on Earth are these kids
going to have a chance well they're not
going to have a chance if their teachers
tell them that they're never going to
get into a Russell group University and
they and they well what I observed when
I was there was I observed one teacher
running from one classroom to the next
classroom this was under Ator government
trying to teach two classes at the same
time and I remember sitting down with
her cuz I cuz I got like kicked out of
school then I was unexposed from school
so I had a bit of my own prejudices
about school I thought teachers were the
problem and what I came to learn from
speaking to the Headmaster of the school
was that this is effectively run like a
business and the amount of students that
choose that school every year determines
how much money the school is given by
the the conservative government and the
the amount of the parents choose schools
based on the league table and the league
table is determined by grades so really
if you think about the the structure
here um the reason why they're driving
kids like me to do subjects which I
absolutely hated when I was really
interested in business was because if
they don't get me to get 12 AED to sees
or whatever the nonsense is in certain
subjects less they they rank poorly in
the league table less parents choose the
school they get less money from the
government and it's this down with
spiral and because the school was so so
people are people are are naturally
skewed to doing subjects that
perhaps no interest of them they had me
pushing some plastic baby around the
school in Health and Social care when I
was running businesses in the school and
I was I was spending so much time in my
in exclusion unit because I was falling
asleep in classrooms turns out I had
ADHD I wasn't interested in these things
but I was obs in these things the system
is that is designed to just to just sort
of spread bet you across multiple
subjects and you're a failure if you're
not good at that but going back to the
sort of the E the the um e economics of
the school I watched this teacher run
from one classroom to the other teaching
two classrooms at the same time and she
told me that because less students had
chosen that school this year she was
having to pay for the footballs and the
the pencils in her classroom this school
I I observed the quality of Education
with all due respect they did the best
with with what they had but oh my God it
doesn't compare doesn't compare to a lot
of the other schools that I've observed
and I thought God these children in this
school are starting out life with a
significant disadvantage and much of
that is just down to the funding
situation they don't have the teachers
the teachers are dropping like flies
because they're getting sick because
they're understaffed and I just thought
that that's such a if we think about you
know what's the furthest Upstream thing
we can do to give people a fair Shake in
life so that they can become a prime
minister or a CEO or whatever they want
to be it starts there it starts with
education and just giving everyone the
same sort of quality of opportunity but
right now and especially under the the
sort of last 10 15 years of
government Cas I think I probably ought
to to to try and resist some of that
because um yeah I mean I think teaching
is incred I tried to be a teacher myself
it's it's it's unbelievably difficult
and and demanding job and I hugely
admire teachers
um when I came in in 2019 we put a lot
of money into into the education budgets
and um made sure teachers were going to
be paid new new teachers are starting
Sal at least 30,000 pounds and uh put a
lot of money into into further
education um and actually if you look at
that period of con of the conservative
Administration I think most fairm minded
people say actually look UK went up the
pza rankings uh for literacy and
numeracy most people actually would say
that education was one of the things
where things did get better and uh I
think the driving out of the whole
Academy program I
mean not remotely denying what you say
about
um the teacher you you know the teachers
you saw being being totally run run
ragged um and you know the
they need the maximum possible support
but if you look at the
data schools did get appreciably better
in this country during that period now
what I wanted to do was really
turbocharge that and
give not just school children but also
kids who'd left school at at 16 the
types of skills that they were going to
need to
compete and to make sure that business
felt that they had in the schools in the
Fe colleges in wherever it was they had
the talent that they needed to invest in
that area because that's ultimately what
it's all about it's about having the
um the
confidence that the the state is doing
enough
to deliver private sector
investment that is that is ultimately
what will transform
the the neighborhood and and you get
instead of getting the vicious circle of
of decline that you talked about you'll
get a you'll get a uh a positive
feedback Loot and uh parents want to
move there they want to send their kids
to the to to the school the school get a
good good reputation and and so things
will things will turn around as they did
in London look at London schools um you
know I can't I can't comment on the
school you mentioned in Liverpool but
London schools really really changed a
lot
I think with even with the leveling up
thing one of the easiest ways to level
up without building the train line would
just be to improve the quality of
Education in these and I think if you
look at what the conservatives did they
really focused on that and they focused
on the curriculum they focused on
standards they focused on quality and I
think that was very important because
you
know I mean it's Al it's very very
important to to to fund schools properly
um but but you know you you shouldn't
underestimate what what a great teacher
can achieve and the difference that they
can make and you know if if you
emphasize quality and you
emphasize attainment and you and you
focus on that that's why I'm I know I
think it's I'm slightly worried about
what's happening now with with ofstead I
mean I I I can understand why people
don't like one word ofstead gradings but
parents need to know whether a school is
gonna deliver you went to Oxford
University then you had a job as a
Management Consultant which lasted only
a week I hear yeah I was wasn't really
cut out for Management Consultant you
know you then become a journalist um you
become a journalist for the next couple
of years you then appear on have I got
news for you is it is it now is it now
feeded from the memory it's slightly
it's slightly fading it's still a great
show but it's still slightly fading um
you were then editor he must tell in his
lot that it's F and and uh you an empty
at the house of comms um then eventually
you for London mayor were you did you
expect to win the London mayor ship I
well you see this is the way you I
hadn't got the faintest idea I mean
seemed the thing was that I'd actually
been quite an admirer of Ken Livingston
in in the old days and I thought that he
had some some bold and original ideas
for London I I thought he was good on
the environment he was good on air
quality he was good on on the I thought
there was some some some good things
that he that he did um but it was clear
that after 8 years you know you start to
get a bit ragged did you did you think
you would
win I suppose I must have done I suppose
I must have thought it was a good chance
it was it was it was a pretty exhausting
campaign but if you ask me if I thought
I would win something I can tell you in
hset whether I thought I'd win I did
soccer Aid last year this year and I can
tell you if I thought I was going to win
did you think you were going to win when
you
ran I thought there was a goodish chance
but it wasn't obvious I mean I I think
the bookies didn't really had me as the
as the favorite uh for for a long time I
think it then changed I can't remember
exactly but
um you know you make your own L right I
mean I had to I had to go in there and
make the arguments I me I think one of
the things that
Ken didn't pay enough attention to was
crime and I thought
the was a real issue that needed to be
addressed and that was the the numbers
of teenage kids being murdered and we
really really went at that hard and
again it was one of those things where
when I together with a lot of other
people kit Mouse Deputy Mayor Steven
greenhalge uh Paul Stevenson the
commissioner Bernard Hogan
how who who followed him we really
really tried to fix knife crime and gang
crime I used to literally lie awake at
night worrying about it because it was
so on me
you know every every single casualty
having to talk to the parents you know
the misery the misery of of their
suffering we really felt it and we and
it was it was a good example of
democracy because we'd pledged to fix
it and if we
didn't we had nowhere to go one of the
things I'm proud of is we we cut the
murder in London during my time by 50%
in 2016 at 52 years old you become
co-leader along side Michael go of the
campaign to take Britain out of the EU
when I when I look at your Premiership
as prime minister of the UK there's
three really significant moments isn't
there that typically don't fall all in
one
person's role as a prime minister you
had the brexit issues you had Co and you
had the Ukraine war y um before I before
I talk about those particular
issues in hindsight now how do you feel
about the fact that you had to contend
with three
generational crises and issues but you
know that's the job of being prime
minister but most Prime Ministers don't
get sure but but you know pandemic
leaving the EU some Prim ministers have
had Wars some Prim ministers have had uh
terrible crisis uh Sterling crisis
terrible you wish you got a different
hand no I I I think actually do you
think you'd still be in politics now and
as prime minister if you if you got a
different hand no I think there are I
think honestly I think there were other
reasons for for for that I mean I'm so
I'm I'm proud of of the things that we
did with with the country I think it was
very you know people now say um oh
brexit War actually you know one of the
points I make in in Unleashed is that if
you look at it the model of national
Independence that we got was crucial so
full freedom to do what we wanted in
legislation and regulation that was
actually crucial when it came to that
pandemic because we were able to
vaccinate faster than any other European
country a much faster I mean did you
think you were going to win the brexit
vote um I honestly when I was outside
London yes when I was inside London no
so whenever I traveled around the
country I thought my God people are
going to vote then when I got back into
the
Metropolis um it felt very different so
if you had to put your house on it
remain or leave in terms of the
probability of the outcome what you your
predicted outcome which one would you
have voted
on well I the polls were were basically
more for remain than for
leave um but I sort of thought that our
voters were more motivated so I hoped
that they would come out and I hoped
that they
would that was and but he did but on a
scale had foreseen I mean because we had
17.4 million people voted Lee which was
the biggest number voted for any
proposition in history and um but you
know there were plenty of times when I
you
know you could be in a in I was a St
Andrews University in Scotland for my
daughter's graduation day and you really
wouldn't have thought that we were going
to leave talking to those people there
so you know it depended do you know
what's interesting when I was reading
your book but also when I was reading
some of your previous writings you
seemed really conflicted on which way to
go leave or remain right up until you
wrote your sort of first announcement
piece that you were supporting leave you
seemed to be really really
conflicted the the reasons for for for
not
leaving were it seemed to me to be more
to do with Britain's duty to the rest of
Europe or need to be good partners uh
our need not to be
negative uh to be friendly I that that
those were the things that worried me
people the positive reasons for leaving
people point at this letter which was
unpublished you know the letter I'm
referring to the unpublished letter you
wrote about the decision to leave or
stay within the EU is this no you mean
the the article the unpublished article
yeah yeah yeah yeah where you said here
some of the the phrases from that piece
think of Britain think of the rest of
the EU think of of the future think of
the desire of our children and our
grandchildren to live and work in other
European countries to sell things there
to make friends perhaps to find Partners
there I like the sound of freedom I like
the sound of restoring democracy but
what are the downsides and here we must
be honest there is the worry about
Scotland about the possibility that the
English only Lee vote could lead to the
breakup of the Union there is the Putin
Factor we don't want to do anything to
encourage more shirtless swaggering from
the Russian leader not the Middle East
not anywhere and then there is the whole
geostrategic anxiety Britain is a great
nation a global Force for good it is
surely a boon for for the world and for
Europe that she should be intimately
engaged in the EU lastly this is a
market on our doorstep ready for future
exploitation by British firms the
membership fee seems rather small for
all that access why are we so determined
to turn our back on it shouldn't our
policy be like our policy on cake pro-
having it and pro eating it pro Europe
and pro rest of the world so when I read
that but then I also I read the um the
very Vivid description you gave of that
night when you're trying to make your
decision in your book unle
and you seemed torn but the guy that
went out and campaigned didn't seem torn
there was a there was a real lack of
nuance in the campaign but there's such
a a huge amount of nuance in both the
moment you were making the decision and
the Articles you wrote about that
decision there are arguments both ways
and and I I I say it in the in the book
and it's certainly true that as I as I
said just now the the case for for stay
is I think one about um not seeming to
be hostile not seeming to be detached
but I had to
decide because the being in the EU isn't
like just being in a club that where the
rules don't change it's it's a project
to create a United States of of Europe
with a single currency with a single
Parliament and and and so on
and I thought that we weren't ever going
to get the choice again the chance again
to have National Democratic Independence
and as I said in so I wrote that article
you just quoted was a sort of pasti of a
of a
counterargument which I wrote for myself
as an exercise after I'd already written
the piece to to come
out and I wanted to set them side by
side and and to think the that's nuanced
but the campaign wasn't nuanced but if
you read the the other article yeah
you'll see the points that I came down
in favor of MH
and that was about having full marhall
Independence and be able to do things
your own way and the trouble with
staying in the
EU was it it meant that we were going to
become less and less
Democratic and in the end you've got to
be able
to as a
politician you've got to be able to
answer the question
question who put you in authority over
me and how can I remove you from office
and the problem with the EU is there's
no way they can answer that question
because they're not they're not
democratically is there not way you can
reform the relationship with the EU
while being in the EU you know it's
interesting I think I was thinking of a
football analogy as you're talking there
and right now Manchester United my team
are having a bit of struggle right and
um my friends in the group chat are
saying do you think that we should get
rid of the manager and I'm saying when
you think about making a decision like
that you also have to factor in um what
you do after I.E who replaces the
manager so many fans would just say sack
the manager but then the question
becomes but then what and it was quite
clear in your book that although you
wanted to leave the EU you had no
idea what the plan would be thereafter
and in fact no but no but what we needed
to do is take back control and so that's
like fire the manager I'm saying but
then what
it
wasn't I was just wanting to win an
argument with the public about their
democracy and whether they should
control it or not and I thought that
ultimately we had to do that and and I
think that if you look at so going back
to the points that we were talking about
earlier to growth rates in America and
and Europe you couldn't say that the the
EU model has been economically
successful not at all um it's got
chronically bad growth rates um very low
Innovation by comparison with the United
States something is is not working so
whatever that whatever they're doing in
Brussels to provide this this great body
of of Regulation it's not actually
delivering results for the people of of
Europe and if
you clip when compared to America well
so so from 2008 on to 15 take the 15
years 2008
20202 whatever to tr indry um but does
that mean that the EU is doing something
wrong or that the Americans are doing
something right because when I think of
America I think of insane
Innovation a lot a bit of both a lot I
mean a lot of both
so me the Americans by the way would
never dream of trading away National
sovereignty over anything they just
don't they never they never they never
in any way NATO is a bit of a act where
they've formed complete hegemony in NATO
I mean you know that's but they joined
forces to make the some greater than the
parts yeah but you know there's no the
the the EU provides a a body of new and
a continuously evolving body of new law
which British the British Parliament
can't change and so to get back to so
why I mean I'm not pretending it wasn't
an e it wasn't a difficult decision it
was a difficult decision uh for the you
know for the reasons that you that that
we've gone into but I wanted the country
our country to be
legislatively free again and and at the
heart of the book you know you talk
about the pandemic being the most
difficult thing it was very very
difficult but and it was very difficult
to persuade the British public to I very
find ways of stopping the spread of the
disease but one thing we did better than
any other European country was vaccinate
and one reason we were able to vaccinate
so fast is because we had regulatory
freedom of exactly the kind I mean it
was a complete flute but it turn exactly
the kind we'll talk about that that I
that I had advocated we'll talk about
that and so and so that for me was
absolutely crucial and then we'll talk
about that I just want to I need to make
sure I'm clear because if I'm not clear
moving forward then my audience aren't
going to be clear um this idea of like
Freedom if we take the the analogy of
like a of a
parachute if I cut the C WS I'm free but
I'm also in danger unless I have a
paraglider waiting to catch me and my
point here is I understand the head all
the like the big emotional words that
freedom Take Back Control Etc it sounds
compelling to me but as I said with the
football analogy what's the plan
thereafter and I think I I actually
don't want I don't about cutting you
talking about the parachute right and
cutting the cords of the of the
parachute um actually it was the other
way around it was because we'd come out
of the EU that we were able to equip
ourselves with a parachute faster than
anybody else and uh we were able to to
get out of the Burning Plane uh faster
and to get to ground safely faster
because we' taken back control of our of
our regulatory freedom and that meant
that by March 2021 we' vaccinated 45% of
the adult population and of the older
people I think we done almost 80 over
the over 80 we done almost 100% and that
was incredible if you remember we had we
had we'll talk about the vaccines in
early in those early day but the two
things are connected those early days we
had thousands you know up to a thousand
people dying every day and so it was
incredibly important just we were able
to give elderly and vulnerable people in
the UK a protection from in a on this
point of brexit though in your book you
say you almost sort of connect yourself
from the fact that you there had to be a
plan associated with the decision
because you seem almost angry that
people would expect you to have the plan
even though you led the campaign yeah so
I mean I'm trying to make the connection
between brexit and the real world and
why brexit delivers value was there a
plan for leaving so so but on the in
2016 and I think what you're really
saying is what was our plan for the
um the referendum outcome so me
everybody who campaigned to to leave
were we expecting to win uh were we
expecting to form the next government
let me quote your book this is good for
promotion for your book so you're like
this never at any point in that campaign
did we Boris and Michael gave discuss a
future leave based government because we
did not imagine that there would be
would have we would have to be in charge
of government the government stated
policy was to implement the referendum
result it was a result it was a
referendum not an election we had no
plans for government no plans for
negotiations because it was not our
job and in so far as the next few days
were chaotic which they were it is
utterly infuriating that we should be
blamed it was up to the government to
announce the plan to withdraw it was up
to the government to begin negotiations
so this is I mean this is this is a huge
issue because if in the context of
business because when because when
because why because because because I
think there a fundamental misconception
when you when when when a government
decides to put something to the people
in a
referendum the government is not saying
um oh you know if if it goes against our
you know the any particular position
we'll we'll disappear but the government
they wanted to remain in France uh for
instance uh uh uh France miton had
referendum on I I can't remember I think
it was the master treaty um or was one
of the treaties that he he lost the vote
um and he didn't resign he didn't
disappear plenty of European uh leaders
have had referendums on E on on on the
EU and and they've gone against them but
they haven't vanished from the scene and
so you know let put this the other way
around imagine imagine that go and I or
the whole of the leave team had been
specifically campaigning to in the leave
vote to form the next government and to
install ourselves as the rulers of the
country people would have said this is
not about um this you're plainly you
you're talking all your arguments
designed to advance your political
careers you're not you're not talking
about the issue of leave or remain
you're talking about a plan to take over
the government I and so totally I'm not
politici I'm just I'm just a member of
public I'm just trying to I'm trying to
explain why that that was not possible I
get it but as a member of the public I
think if you're leading the charge for
an outcome you must have looked a couple
of steps further to think about the
implications and the real ity of this
outcome like you must have had okay do
it like this we I assume that the
government would have bring would have a
white paper that said that brought they
they were going to bring forward the
options for the country and a plan to
negotiate and a plan and a plan to would
to do what they said they were going to
do but the government including your
friend David Cameron said this is a
really bad idea he so one would one
would take from that that the plan is
not a good one that they've looked at
all the available options post leaving
and there's no good options here so if
the people in charge were saying we
should not leave there is no good
plan shouldn't we have listened to them
well no because I think they were
wrong as a member of public is I see two
like two people stood at a cliff Edge
and you got one guy called David one guy
called Boris and David has said listen
I'm taking you to the cliff Edge because
it's your right to to make this decision
but do not jump and this other guy
called Boris is going jump I would
assume that Boris knows something about
how we survive once we start falling but
to find out that Boris had no plan and
thought David was going to pull out the
parachute for me is like well David D
the problem the problem was that I I
then we then had to we then found
ourselves because David prime minister
Cameron then disappeared from the
scene
immediately as I as I described in the
book we then we then had a a chaotic
period where we had to work out what the
hell we were going to do because it was
clear
that we were going to somebody was going
to have to take over and and lead us
through it did David Cameron react badly
when you told him when he thought that
you might be voting to leave because you
talk about in the book he yes I did he
but I mean but I describe it um in the
in the book he he said he said
um he
said I well I said look I I was really
struggling with this because I didn't
see how I consistently cuz he'd offered
me he said if you come out and support
rain you can have a top five job in the
cabinet I couldn't work out what a top
five job was and then he and then he
said um and then I he I said well look I
was Finding very because I've written
lots and lots of Articles the pointing
out the the Democratic problems of the
of the EU and you know finally we had a
chance to to resolve this and I was
thinking of of coming out for leave and
I you know didn't know how to put it to
him that was the the truth and he he
said this isn't about articles this is
about the future of the country I said
well I agreed about the future of the
country but I was still thinking canot
believe and he said well if you if you
if you come out believe he said I will
and I you know apologize for he same he
said I will I will [__] you up
forever and which I thought was quite a
big big you know sort of promise to me
he said he was going to [__] you up
forever forever and so I immediately um
went back home after I went back home
after that evening and uh and cycled
back from my office in in in City Hall
and talked to my my family my kids and
one of my kids uh said immediately well
you know he got no choice and you'll
have to come out for leave so
um I mean I put that in to to I put all
that in really to just to show you that
um there were very good Arguments
for having a quiet life do you know
what's interesting in that is I when I
read that part in your book The was two
things that I thought the first was him
offering you a top five job if you
followed his opinion is that not briary
and is that how the jobs are dished out
in the government at the moment if if
you if you do what I say I'll give you a
top like if you do what I say I'll make
you health secretary or defense
secretary seems like but it seems like
from as a someone who's not in
government it seems like a really
corrupt way to dish out jobs like if you
if you go with me it wasn't clear it
wasn't clear you've got to be fair to
Dave it wasn't clear what job he was
offering but top five is what defense
secretary Health
secretary you know PMS were top five
jobs so there's what really four
remaining it's probably you thought in
the book you talk about potentially
defense secretary I don't know but yes
but yeah I mean look but but is that not
a bit corrupt is that not like the
definition of corruption because if I
was it to my employ my own view about
all I think it's a it's a huge mistake
to do that kind of thing because there
are always far more people that you know
you end up you know thinking
that you should be making a promise to
then there are jobs you can possibly
give so the best thing in those
circumstan is to say nothing I I've I've
always wondered this about government
and I've never understood it is how does
someone become the head of a department
when they have no prior experience in it
like you made Matt hanock Health
secretary how did how did Margaret
thater become Prime Minister or
secretary for Education when she had no
previous previous experience how did
Tony Blair become Prime Minister when no
the Prime Minister thing I understand
how but how did how did T become you
know a shadow Minister when he had no
experience you tell me do you think this
is a good system well so this is a
really really important point because I
think that there is a
um I
I I do worry that it's quite hard to
persuade you know really good
administrative types to go into to
politics and you know you see it the the
whole time it's called Dar CEO right and
you see it the whole time you see loads
and loads of um I plenty of examples of
top business people who tried to get who
tried to become politicians and it just
doesn't seem to work and I I don't know
I mean can I can I have a guess go on
well if I look at the data I go if 35%
of them come from one school eaten and
then there's jobs being dished out based
on if you take my opinion I'll give you
a top five job I go I understand why I
could never get in even if I was the
best candidate because it's not being
done based on who's the best candidate
it's being done based on like the old
boys club but I'll do you a favor I'll
if you well not not under not under the
labor party presumably uh or you know or
or any other party not not not not under
the I mean most most conservative
cabinets so just under the T party no I
I think under under any party I think I
think that business people do for
reasons I find hard to put my f
on they don't necessarily flourish in in
that environment and who flourishes what
I what I worry about is that the only
people who are already going to start
doing it are people who are willing to
go through a lot of um you know
public attack I think social pass well I
mean well the fact so look one of the
interesting things that's happened
recently is that social media has become
very very
virulent and um I I don't read it myself
but I think it it becomes very
oppressive for politicians and also for
journalists and I think journalists
[Music]
um you know they get a lot of
shellacking and a lot of abuse if
they're not thought to be taking one
line or or the other or you know going
easy on someone um I mean somebody who's
going to interview me for this this book
um yeah you look at and she's a very
very good journalist but you look at the
stuff that she gets
online um about you
know you know her being an Inquisitor of
mine or whatever it's appalling it's
really appalling and I think so I think
that and I think that it's also the same
for MPS I think that they get
very um they think they think if it's a
choice between having a life where I can
you know avoid this sort of stuff
and you know having a wonderful
existence doing something else or or
putting myself through this on the point
of that I said think thinking that it's
related to the fact that people have got
their hands on the scales they're
pulling their friends up it's a bit of a
boys club is there any truth in that I
think but I think I look I'm sad to say
Steve I think that this probably been
the way politics has been since the dawn
of time I think that politicians I think
politics has tended to be um
factional uh since the dawn of time I
think it's tended to be just sad but I
think true um the the good thing is
that in the end the people who are
really successful are the people
who get things done that the people want
done do you think it's say magnet and so
and so and so so so it's a it's
a it's a magnet for very determined
characters who are willing to put
themselves through a lot soop get things
well well I
mean um have I used those words before
no no but that's the kind of person
you're making me sounds like you're
quoting me about maybe you but yeah but
the kind of person that I think would be
compelled and succeed in such an
environment um I
think I think you have to have a pretty
thick skin okay but the but because of
the because of the way it
works the people who actually succeed
are the people who really can drive
something forward and and deliver it
closing off on brexit um 62% of British
people view brexit as more of a failure
according to yugov and 9% consider it
more of a success um according to yugov
as well 46% of British people say they
should there should be a second e
referendum in 10 years compared to just
36% that say it shouldn't be
and according to let me just finish the
stats you can respond um according to
the UK's Real gross added value the gva
a measure of the size of the economy um
they say there's approximately 140
billion Less in 2023 in the UK economy
compared to if the UK had stayed in the
single EU Market according to the same
thing they say that 300 billion has been
wiped off the value of the UK's economy
um by
2035 and my last stat here is a report
from the center of European reform in
2023 estimates the UK GDP was 5.5%
smaller by mid 2023 compared to a
scenario where the UK had remained in
the EU this equates to an economic loss
of about 40 billion annually and just as
a business owner myself I was looking at
some stats around what business owners
think about 33% of small businesses
reported that brexit has made it harder
for them to trade with the EU due to
increased paperwork and things like this
and the London School of Economics said
that brex added 6% to food prices
between 2020 and 2023
with all of this in mind do you regret
brexit not at all not at all I mean
honestly uh so we've outgrown Germany uh
France since 2016 onwards uh sorry
certainly out grown Italy uh since 2016
onwards last time I looked Germany and
Italy were both members of the of the EU
and when you the statistics that you
give I mean they are dwarfed for
instance by
covid um you know even if I even if you
accept that um which I don't necessarily
uh that uh brexit has caused uh problems
it's also caused massive opportunities
because we because we were able to come
out of the lockdown earlier than any
other country remember we we came out of
lockdown in
July
2021 we ended we ended all restrictions
and that meant that we had the fastest
economic rebound of any G7 country and
that would not have happened in my view
without the assistance of brexit
freedoms do you know the O ecd do you
know what that body is yes yes they say
the UK is the only major Rich economy
that remains smaller poorer than prior
to the pandemic and brexit may be a
factor in that in the government's
independent Watchdog which I know you
know the office for Budget
responsibility thinks the UK will
ultimately be 4% worse off than it would
have been had it not voted for brexit
when I you know in business everything
is a trade-off everything is a trade-off
so you must be able to identify the
tradeoff that the UK has made for all of
the upsides that you claim brexit is
delivered so I think it's intellectually
honest of anyone to be able to identify
both sides of the argument here so what
is the trade-off what has brexit cost us
just it cost what it cost us yeah I
think I think that that it's certainly
true that um the the way that some of it
is being managed by some of our by our
European friends is unnecessarily
bureaucratic at the moment I think that
will get better I I I I I accept that
criticism I don't think it's the end of
the the end of the world but I do think
ultimately the advantage of being free
to do your own thing free to run your
own country to control your own tradeoff
no I have I impact for us in but for me
as an average citizen what's the what's
the what's the trade downside yeah well
I think you know you I it's certainly
true that some some businesses are
finding it harder
to there is paperwork that I don't think
there needs to be and we need to fix
that but I think that the te we have
technological solutions to that I don't
think that we need to be part of a
European Empire of law get and ever
denser and more detailed Empire of law
controlling our freedom and stopping us
is there an economic
trade-off I I don't think I think that
ultimately we will be richer as a result
in the near ter we're going to be poorer
well I you know again people were very
emotional about this and look can I just
remind you when before the referendum
people said that and no one ever holds
these people to account people said that
there would be Millions more unemployed
right do you remember that people said
there would have to be an emergency tax
raising budget if the people voted to
leave the EU actually uh when I cease to
be prime minister unemployment was at a
50-year low and we had 620,000 more
people in paid employment than before
pandemic began point about the
economic I'm just saying that people
people make all sorts of
prognostications about brexit the stats
that I read you do you believe them that
there's an economic struggle in the
short
people said that we would be we would
have a million people on the do Que
because of brexit okay fine but do you
believe that there's a in the near town
they're now saying because they're now
it's it's confirmation bias right people
but you said we will be richer
eventually so I'm saying I hope that we
will if if we do the right thing sure so
in the near term do you think there's a
little bit of struggle to get through
economically as a result of brexit I
think the I think that will that's
certainly the case if we make the
mistake of of staying I mean which is
what K star and the labor parties you
know want to do is staying
in align alignment with the the EU they
they basically want to be us to be rules
takers okay I think that's a huge huge
mistake we should go for
freedom I don't know how to say this you
in a way that you're going to understand
but perfect T is banging I'm an investor
in the company I drink it every day the
whole team drinks perfect Ted every day
we have a perfect Ted fridge in the
office here's why I like perfect Ted
typical energy drinks used to give me
these crashes and as a podcaster the
last thing you want to do is be crashing
in a conversation the founders of
perfect Ted wanted to create an energy
drink that wouldn't create that horrible
crash cycle that many of us go through
so they used matcha as the energy source
and somehow they also made it really
really delicious they've just come out
with this new flavor called juicy Peach
and it is banging if you try perfect TS
juicy Peach and it's not banging feel
free to get in my DMs and cuss me out
you can pick it up at tesos or waos or
you can get it online and here's a
secret that you've got to keep to
yourself I'm going to give you 40% off
perfect Ted just so you can try juicy
Peach yourself go to perfect ted.com and
at checkout put in the code diary 40 I'm
going to leave that up for some time not
forever that's perfect ted.com and then
use code diary 40 at checkout when you
try it make sure you tag me on Instagram
and and say Steve you were right it's
banging the next big thing was the
pandemic this was once you'd become the
prime minister of the United Kingdom um
and you have this pandemic begin to roll
in I was looking at your the the way you
described that situation in late 2019
early 2020 in your book and it appears
that you had no idea of the severity of
this virus that was rolling into the
shores when was the first time you heard
that there was a virus that had come in
from China whatever the date was I think
it was either end
of uh 2019 beginning of 2020 I I can't
remember exactly when but there's
there's a day when uh when I'm walking
through the lobby of the House of
Commons with the health secretary and he
says you know there's I'm worried about
this um this Chinese virus was that
hanock the right person to be handling
that because that is a generational once
in a lifetime health issue yeah and in I
look I think I think he did a very good
job yes I think he was he was very
energetic was he the best person to be
handling it I think it I think he I
think he did a very good job and I think
that was he the best person to be
handling it
look in
hindsight well I I certainly think that
he well yes because I think yes I think
that he had the right mixture of energy
and and
realism um don't forget we didn't know
about the the disease we didn't know how
lethal it was we didn't know how
contagious it was and we didn't know how
exactly how it was transmitted there was
a lot of stuff we we didn't know some
quotes from your book here you said the
problem wasn't that I was ignorant to
zuntic diseases the problem was that I
felt I knew all about
them um after more than 30 years of
writing about or dealing with new zootic
zootic yeah diseases I felt I knew my
SARS and my Ebola so to speak and I
concluded two things first that these
novel zuntic plagues tend to sort
themselves out and second that the
greater risk of destruction from from
these from attempts to stop them by
politicians um was there sort of
attempts to contain the diseases that
the prevention would probably be worse
than the cause in some
respects so when hanock started talking
about a new Corona virus possibly from
bats and the risk that it would sweep
the country it was hardly surprising
that I felt I'd heard this all
before little did we
know yes I I mean so I think that's I
that's I'm I'm being very honest there
about about um as I am throughout
Unleashed about the my state of mind
because you know i' I'd covered in great
detail um the
uh salmon and eggs Panic uh when
millions of chickens were slaughtered uh
needlessly i' covered the uh the bines
punch for men off the Panic mad car
disease when uh vast portion of the UK
dairy uh cattle herd was slaughtered
probably uh
needlessly um the livelihoods of farmers
were destroyed um I'd been mayor of
London when we we were threatened with
the uh with a bird flu um so didn't was
a big deal and we we' laid on stocks of
Tamiflu which turned out not to be to be
necessary uh so I've seen SARS come and
go uh Ebola and so on and in each of
these cases what what what seemed to
have happened was that there had been a
rational anxiety about the risk of a
xonotic disease
um often from Asia or
wherever um we would get in a real we'
do our best to get ready and then
it mysteriously leave us almost
completely unaffected I remember the
swine flu is that what you thought was
happen in this case and I didn't know
course I didn't know but I was what I
was trying to do was to give you context
the context and the state of mind that I
think a lot of people were in
when they they heard about about Co when
did you call China February had it
February 2020 there was a call you made
to the leader of China to Xin ping yeah
yeah I mean I would have called him I
mean it'll be in the it'll be in it'll
be in the book and you were sending
supplies yeah that stage we were we were
still
sending um supplies to help them there
we were we were sending prote what did
he say about the virus well I said
um I look my remember the conversation
is hazy now I I I think I you know
um congratulated him on what seemed to
be his efforts to control the disease
but said I was I was anxious about the
what was happening in these wet markets
because at that stage we were given to
understand that these the disease had
had
occurred um spontaneously in a in a
market in Wuhan what did he say and I
can't remember what he said to to that
um I don't think I he look I mean he's a
he a president of China I don't think he
wanted to particularly the implication
that China was in any way at at fault
and I can take understand that but I now
think that wasn't right I know I think
it almost certainly was a um a lab
accident or it was as a result of
something that went wrong in that lab
can I ask about this because this
started as a conspiracy theory that is
now widely accepted as the probable
likely outcome why were they messing
around with a virus in a lab in Wuhan
well you may well ask I mean I think it
I think they were why do you think they
were someone that is so far away from
why people do these s such a thing I I I
genuinely don't know but I think that
they
were they were exp you know science the
the point of science is to keep pushing
back the frontiers of human knowledge
everywhere and to see what you see what
they could do you think it was a weapon
I don't I didn't have any reason to
think so I didn't have any reason to
think so I think it was a terrible
accident I think the thing um escaped
from the lab I think you know they they
were uh looking at engineering these
viruses a function gain of the of the um
of the virus and and ways that they
could manipulate it and um sadly
something went wrong um that's that's my
best guess and a lot of people now seem
to think that you called Trump around
this time as well to speak to him about
it I did yes what did he think um well I
yeah I mean he took the the firm view
that you know China had a case to answer
but so did a lot of people and in the
book you talk about the World Health
organization's response being seen
seemingly hesitant because they are
wanted to keep Beijing in
favor yes I think a lot of scientists
were anxious
about cheesing off the the Chinese and I
think a lot of scientists you know
because China is very heavily involved
in the support and sponsorship for of a
lot of um academic research and and so
on so there was a sort of hesitant I
felt I me I might have been wrong about
this my impression was there was a sort
of um gingerness about seeming to fing
of the Chinese too much on lockdowns um
it's interesting that I was reading in
your book that around the 8th of March
you start to see what's going on in
Italy and I think we can all vividly
remember those scenes from those Italian
hospitals where there was patients in
the chors being pushed around on trol
trollies and there was not enough beds
and I think for me as well that was one
of the big moments where I realized
watching it actually play out on Twitter
that this was an incredibly serious
situation something that I'd never seen
in my lifetime before
um was that the the penny drop moment
for you that this wasn't just another
bird flu or I was very anxious about it
because I knew the Italian Health Care
system I thought it was broadly
excellent and I remember when you know
one of our one of our kids had a uh fell
into a swim pool in in in Italy once you
know when everybody was having a lion
you know most shattering thing that you
know could never happened to you and the
Italian Prontos Coro came and they were
unbelievably good they were so fast they
were they they were so and I thought you
know if the Italians are having problems
with this thing and you know frankly our
population is about as elderly as theirs
then this could be very very serious so
I think that I think I think that did
really register with me and so if you
look at the and obvious I defer
completely to the inquiry into into all
this under Dame Heather Howard but if
you look at what happened from then on
in you see a series through through
March up till the 23rd of March you see
a series of intensifying steps to try to
get people to take precautions what I
what I observed I saw that in the book
and you kind of have the stages that you
break down um that you went through from
that moment onwards what I observed
though and I think this is probably a
fair estimation or a fair description of
what happened was there was
indecision because it seemed like there
was facts coming from one ear facts
coming from the other ear and there was
almost a bit of paral is and when you
look at the rest of the European numbers
which I was looking through um yesterday
about when different sort of European
markets made that decision the UK
appears to make the decision to lock
down much slower than all the other
European nations um slower to close the
schools the shops and events seem to be
later than our European counterparts and
Matt hanock went on to say that they
were ahead of us in the in the in the
epicur anyway MH uh so so so they they
so you mentioned the Italian situation
yeah and they they were already ahead of
us and you know we could see that we
were going to have to bring in measures
but you know again this will be for the
inquiry to to comment upon but it's it's
it's pretty clear to me that we we
couldn't reasonably have
instituted these measures in the UK
which would novel and draconian
um in advance of the scientific advice
or opinion and and that's what and
that's what it would have been them
being ahead of us isn't relevant because
the chart I have here shows how many
days it took us to take decisive action
after the third death and it shows that
for all of the European nations and when
I was reading about the information you
were getting from scientists on this end
and from other people in
politics it was so contradictory that I
think I was guessing that that's what
caused the decision and also your own
sort of philosophy towards shutting down
soci we had this group called the
scientific Advisory Group on emergencies
right the sage and they they were so we
were going to be led by the science
and we basically had to I decided that
we had to follow what Sage
advised
and for a long
time to a point they hesitated about
schools because of all the dis benefits
and if you remember the argument was
that if you went too early then there
was a a risk that you'd have to keep
doing it uh because you you know the
public would lose patience with with the
lockdown and there was there there was a
second argument which was there would
then be bounced back if you if if you
went too early uh and you kept on for
twoo you'd then
take the measures off and the virus
would would flare up again and which
indeed did happen um throughout the
course of the of the pandemic so there
were the scientific
advice
was I mean it wasn't I wouldn't say it
was particularly confused at that stage
I think it was they were struggling to
assess exactly what to to do and there
were different views within the
scientists about certain things like
Matt hanock said that we could have
saved 30,000 lines like um masks and so
on is that true Matt Han you know
I if we if we' lock down earlier I I I
can't say that for sure uh I I I've no
no way of knowing that um but what I
what I can say is that
the to have locked down earlier would
have been to have um
gone beyond to have
anticipated scientific advice it would
not have been some and I'm you know I'm
not a epidemiologist I'm I'm not a
scientist uh I was being asked to you
know the what was on the agenda was
imprisoning the whole UK
population um it wasn't something the
scientists were yet recommending in the
book you seem to question whether those
lockdowns really even worked so I'm not
saying that what I'm saying so dep what
you mean by work
I think that they
certainly
did have a role
in stopping spread of the disease and
they helped probably to turn down the
the curve of the of the disease probably
I you know almost certainly what I find
very difficult to gauge now and you know
again this is for for heet is to what
extent was it the
lockdowns what did it and to what extent
was this going to happen naturally a
result of the the natural Parabola and
you suspect it was going to happen
anyway I'm not what I what I'm saying is
that to some extent it to some extent or
to a large extent it was perhaps going
to happen anyway perhaps and
given that it was perhaps it was to a
large exent perhaps going to happen
anyway the question
is did the benefit benefits of
lockdown
outweigh the very very severe Damage
Done to kids life chances at school
which talked about earlier what do you
think the answer to that question is I
think that we did the right thing you
think we did the right thing I think we
did the right thing but I but I'm I'm
conscious that there are lots of people
who who disagree and what I hope is that
the covid inquiry will will say that yes
we did do the right thing in your book
when you talk about those those measures
um you refer to them as Bon
the the sort of different areas yeah I
think that's that's bit that's later
that's by the that's when we got to the
tearing system the tearing system you
talked B Bonkers and you seem surprised
that people would follow this stuff and
that they wanted to follow this
stuff which is strange hearing it from
the guy that put the rules in place you
think it's the tearing system was
Bonkers and you surprised talk about the
hindsight right yeah yeah so at the time
at the time it seemed so we had a
situation so coming out of the first
um the
first um lockdown so in in the summer of
of 2020 and and going into the into the
Autumn and things start to get more
difficult again we have a situation
where in some parts of the country in I
don't know places uh like leester or
West Midlands or or
wherever uh
Northwest um you have the tears you've
got a problem which is that some areas
haven't really seen a you know the co
really go down anything like as much as
it went down say West country Cornwall
was that a bad idea in say and so you
had uh people saying you know why the
hell should pu be closing cornall yeah
when there's no Co and just because
there there's Transmission in in in
bolon or wherever so is that a bad idea
in hindsight well no it was a good idea
in principle because because because
after all um it was it it was crazy it
seemed but the problem the problem was
that it was very very difficult to draw
the boundaries and as soon as you as
soon as you said you know well this bit
of Lester's in uh tier which whatever or
or yeah it was it was impossible went
crazy because it was very invidious and
it see and on on a human level when
you're leading the country during a
pandemic and you've got you're getting
these numbers every day that people are
dying and that people are sick and then
you know I know you got sick yourself
what is there a mental toll on you
throughout that
period Well I think it
was so as you discover it Unleashed I
like it when I can go forward and when I
have things positive projects to do so
it was very very difficult when I was
constantly having to shut the country
down constantly trying to stop the
transmission of the Disease by these
very very crude methods but once
in by end of 2020 we had the prospect of
a vaccination then my mood totally
changed because because then I had
something my question was about you as a
human being when you're dealing with
tragic news and this escalating pandemic
what what's the human toll if i' had
been a fly on the wall in your hardest
moments throughout that pandemic what
would I have seen well I think that I
think it was certainly pretty tough I I
had a bad bout of covid what was the
hardest day outside of the getting the
illness yourself what was the hardest
day for you throughout that
period I think
that ah boy I think it
was there was a lot of tough times but I
think having
to having to go probably the to go back
into lockdown in in in the end of 2020
was pretty pretty awful because the CL
you we'd really really hope that tearing
would work and you know some people
still think it could have worked
um but it just W you know we we couldn't
I couldn't take the risk the quote from
your book that I pulled out which really
shocked me was the real question I
suppose is why on Earth the public so
avidly craved these rules and why they
were so willing to have their doings
circumscribed in such a rabinal detail
in their complexity they were also like
a kind of religion detailed rituals you
just obeyed L Leviticus like in the hope
of Salvation because science was slow to
help us on the 13th of September 2021
your mother Charlotte passes away while
at the same time you're dealing with all
of this Fallout and the recovery from
the
pandemic that's a tough moment yeah but
that's the same for any person in any um
in any Walk of Life you know that's
always a a very very tough moment um I
think
that
um you know to to your to your point
about the the people why why do people
obey the rules so much and and my my
feelings about that I think no I'm
asking about your mother here so your
mother passed away in September
2021 and you you don't touch on it so
heavily in the book the circumstances of
that but that must be a particularly
tough moment for a person that's dealing
with all of these other social issues
and political issues at the same
time yes I know but I mean I think I
suppose the point I make there is that
is our our common human law lot isn't it
and yes it it
was tough for me and my my brothers and
sisters of my family
um very very very tough you know we miss
her to this day uh all of us but you
know um a lot of people were suffering a
lot throughout that pandemic and a lot
of people lost loved ones
and you know I had to be I had to be
very very mindful of
of what was happening every day in in
households across the country and and I
had to try to and I had a desperately
difficult because one of the interesting
things about being prime minister is is
the way it works now is how much of it
is just funneled
upwards and you know there's you have to
take those decisions there's nobody else
who can do it for you would you remember
where you were when you found out that
Charlotte was had passed away got I
think it was in I was driving driving to
London I I'd been I'd been out on a
visit and was it
unexpected well I mean you know
um she'd had she'd been out for a long
time with um with
Parkinson's and she had various
complications associated with
Parkinson's
um and she'd had a bad scare about a
year previously so no I couldn't say it
was you know um medically
I could not say it was medically totally
unexpected no did you have a chance to
grieve her
passing I certainly did grief her
passing
um but
um if if you mean did I sort
of process it mourn it I you know to I
to the best of my ability yes are you
good are you a natural at that sort of
thing that sort of
emotional I guess connection with
yourself God
um I think probably go back to some of
the earlier things we were we were
saying I mean I did grieve and you know
I do miss her like all my brothers and
sisters I do I do miss her today but you
know um I also had a huge amount to to
think about and to get done and
and we just have to you know we had to
do it many members of the UK population
were also mourning and grieving at the
same time and I think that's why the the
party gate scenario which you talk about
in the book was so enraging for many
people because as someone who again is
not very close to politics like myself
it's Optics here you know and I think
that's really the issue when you've got
people who are unable to see their their
loved ones because of the situation with
funerals and the pandemic even the
suggestion that there was a rave going
on in number 10 is the most enraging
thing that I think anyone could say but
there wasn't a rave going on I mean
you'll find it all that you'll find all
Unleashed and there and I feel desperate
about it and I really do and I and I
understand you know completely why
people got so enraged I really do
understand that and I did my I did my
best to to try and you know I think I
mishandled the whole thing the the the
revelations as such as they were uh but
also
reality but you know because at the end
of the book you do seem to to highlight
that you could have done things to well
what I could have done was what I could
have done I think so I I wonder why I
commissioned Sue gray uh to conduct an
investigation into it I mean I I was
informed that she was the you know
politically impartial and a model of
sort of you know obsessed with with
Proby and and neither of those things
now seem to me to
true I've got a picture here um there
was 17 parties that were alleged during
the the the sort of party gate time
frame and one of the pictures that
leaked to the public was this picture of
you enjoying some cheese and some wine I
believe um at 10 Downing Street now as
again a member of the public I look at
this I look at some of these key dates I
know you were fined for one particular
date which was your birthday I think
where you were raising the glass of wine
with some colleagues no I wasn't you see
again you see
people say this kind of thing and it was
it the AIDS leaving drink that you were
fined for no I wasn't fined for that
what were you find for I was fined for
my for going into stand at my desk in
the cabinet room uh between meetings
with a glass of wine no not with a glass
of wine um and
several members of staff were also there
but there were people I saw throughout
the working day anyway but this picture
and just just cuz people think that I
had a cake and that we we didn't have a
I didn't have a cake I I I didn't even
see a cake
um to say it was a party is a complete
travesty it was about the most
lugubrious event in the it was it
consisted of people who were part of my
normal working life that that picture
that you you're pointing to
there was this the the Metropolitan
Police did at that but they decided
there was no offense committed because
what you've got is people sitting
outside as as people tried to do during
those times because there was much less
risk of infection just let me just read
some of the stuff so 15th of May 2020
cheese and wine um at Downing Street
approximately 349 people had died from
Co that Day in the UK Mr Johnson was
photographed sitting with his wife
Carrie and some staff at a table with
wine and cheese in the number 10 Garden
at this time Co restrictions so that
people could not
reasonable excuse let me just read this
and then I'll but we we were I was that
that's my that is my home that's the
garden I was supposed to be May 20th um
there was a bring your own booze party
on the same day that 38 people died from
the from the pandemic and you attended
for about 30 minutes you say it was 25
minutes and then the 19th of June was
your your birthday sorry okay can I just
go back over there I mean you know none
of this watches with the public because
they all think that we were you know
having dancing around and and getting
drunk
12th of April Johnson announces that he
has been f50s by the police do you know
what it is though it
like it's all about it's all it's all
about leading by example isn't it and
you know this
yeah I think my opinion is that whatever
is going on at number 10 needs to be the
extreme demonstration of the perfect
example the extreme demonstration
because you of course you're going to be
attacked you know that yeah of course if
you sneeze you'll be attacked and I say
that in that's what I'm saying so so
what we should have done and and I I say
is we should have I should have said to
everybody look people are going to say
you know matter because it was in fact
as I tried to explain impossible to
maintain perfect social distancing uh in
the the office environment that we were
in um people were working around the
clock um
and I I think that um I should have said
something to the staff like people are
going to be out to get us for God's sake
you
know not only obey the rules but be seen
to obey the rules now we had you know
all the signs in the corridors and and
and stuff like
that I think that there were a lot of
people by that stage who were perhaps
not altogether friendly to me uh who
wanted to you know that's that's fine
that's fine but honestly I I can't help
but believe cuz I try and remain pretty
impartial in these things so I try to
apply common sense as like a business
person but do you really think I was
deliberately partying and breaking the
rules for me do you really think that
for me seeing that photo when one of my
friends can go to their grandmother's
funeral and seeing that there's people
drinking and have appearing to have a
whale of a time just in this photo but
also the other photos where you're
cheersing with wine I go you should
never have allowed that to happen do you
know and I think you agree with me agree
with me because you said at the end of
the book you said I should have said to
to my whole team don't even let
them appear to be breaking the rules in
in in in the course
of almost two
years of people working around the clock
in number 10 in conditions of great
proximity to each other
um there were going to be moments when
of course when colleagues are saying are
going away when you raise a glass to
them unless you're going to ban that I
think you should have well that's a
point of view because I just think
alcohol in 1940 we would we would have
won the second world war I think Prime I
think prime minister during a pandemic I
think you just have to be the most
extreme
example we we got a ban on alcohol in
this country no I think I think I think
genuinely s if we if we if we banned
alcohol in number 10 in 1940 M I think
all Gatherings should have been banned
at number 10 because I think sorry but
we were gather we that means Banning
meetings so what do you mean Gatherings
Gatherings with alcohol and music and
cake I think have been B I've tried to
explain to you there was no cake or I
saw no cake I I was at no event where
there was there was music or dancing
that total nonsense now maybe those
things took place but they certainly
didn't Place take place when I was there
I think one of the problem one of the
mistakes I made was beginning the whole
thing by issuing this General apology
and so what happened was so that people
think that there was um
there was do you still apologize I don't
apologize for allegations of vomiting or
fist fights because they turned out what
you apologize for and well I in so far
as people broke the rules on my watch
and far as I'm responsible of course I
apologize for that but what I was what
I'm what I'm saying in
Unleashed is that
um the problem with leading with a
blanket apology was that it then meant
that absolutely any allegation that was
you you know you've said you've just
said made a couple of your so um you
know any allegation that was then made
about and in Sue Gray's initial report
that she had to to change it she said
there were uh there was a you know
violent altercation and and vomiting and
somebody V but they that both of those
things turned out not to be true you
said you made the mistake in the in your
book you say you made the mistake of
issuing pathetic and groveling apologies
over the Scandal which made it look as
though we were far more culpable than we
were which is just the point I've just
made because I think because because it
it looked as though
but by issuing a sort of universal
apology it meant that any
subsequent um
allegation people assume well that must
be what happened and you and you to be
fair to I I I kind of get the feeling
that's what you think
and that was largely my fault because I
seem to
be intently validating the apology is is
is not I seem to be validating
everything that people said about what
was going on and what was actually going
on was that people were working
unbelievably hard around the clock to
get a lot of very difficult things done
I and and and actually what the the
things that they were successful in are
very creditable and I and
so I feel badly about them on page 75 of
your book you say in retrospect I should
have done more to protect myself and the
rest of white hle against party type
allegations I should have said to the
entire staff perhaps in a letter about
the vital importance of not only obeying
the rules but also to be seen to be
obeying them and reminding um and I
think that that is actually my point
which is apologies I think are good
things I think people should apologize
no but you I'm trying to explain if if
you apologize in advance for the the
problem was that a lot of things were
said about staff in number 10 that
weren't true and weren't fair to them
and my blanket
looked as though I was validating and
accepting all those criticisms okay
which which I think was not in
retrospect I think I should have waited
to see exactly what people you know said
and I what was established to be true
and then I should have apologized for
what what actually happened you see what
I'm saying and and also I want to stick
up again for those officials yeah uh who
were working around the clock to sort
out the government's and the country's
response to covid and when it came to it
did an absolutely outstanding job and I
I don't want I
don't I know you've been you've been
very patient with me you you know you
you've you've allowed me to talk for
almost two and a half hours and of what
I thought was going to be an hour's show
so I'm you've been heroic in putting up
with we're wrapping up now but I just
wanted wanted to ask a few more things
these are personal questions that I have
so um um one of the things that no one
knows about you is how many kids you
have why is this such a
widely debated subject I've never sat
with a guest on my show where I don't
know why widely debated it's a matter of
a matter of I have eight children it's
eight matter matter of public record
okay I don't know why people why is
everyone so obsessed with with a of kids
you have search me go Charlotte Owen
you're not related to her are you no
she's not a former lover no okay I asked
my friends some of the things they want
to she so she's but it's in the book
read read all about it in the book she
is a she is a very capable adviser and
what happens next for Boris Johnson are
you going back into
I live a life of blameless rustic
obscurity you want to get back into
politics I I think that um I stay in
unleashed the chance of the frisbe
dec I saying Unleashed you you should
only do things if you genuinely think
you can be useful at the moment I think
the most I'm loving I do a lot of
painting I'm having a great time living
in uh you know in the countryside um I I
got my hands folding all sorts of things
and and next question quick fire yeah
Trump or camalo and you can't sit on the
phone
all British prime ministers including
ex- Prime Ministers yeah are
constitutionally obliged to be friendly
with whoever who's the best for
international relations whoever whoever
the um the American people decide that
is that is the right thing and you are
dwindling audience would not expect who
who's better for stopping the wars a
who's better for stopping the wars I
mean you know if you read Unleashed I
did read it okay and I saw your
interview on GB news and you seem to
think that Trump would be a better well
I think what I'm saying is that you
should be aware of some of the kind of
anti-trump prejudice about his handling
of foreign policy and there are very
good re you know there very when he was
president he took some tough decisions
and and you know projected in a sense of
American strength and purpose and that's
you know but I make no no further
comment than that and we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest not knowing who they're going to
leave it for right okay and the question
that's been left for you is Success
often comes at a price and one of those
is the relationships we lose along the
way which relationship or person did you
lose in the pursuit of your
success
um you seem to one of the longer you
live the the the more you you know you
can have what seems to be a complete
terrible Sun
and then Le and behold things cheer up
and andn your your your friends again
and
um
so I mean look at look at look at
Michael go you got to answer the
question which relationship will pass
the answer the answer your question is I
don't I don't I don't regard any of the
termination any any rupture I don't
regard any rupture as fin no one's ever
swered this question so you're not going
to be the first I didn't regard any
rupture as final which relationship or
person did you lose in the pursuit of
your success they are not lost I didn't
I I don't give me a person give me a
name we've never had a this is a
long-standing tradition no one's ever
swerve this question I had a clearly I
had a rupture with Michael Gove but then
um in 2016 but then with um heroic
optimism I I I put him back in the in
the cabinet and and you know there you
go Baris thank you thank you for your
time and I'm going to link this book
below so any
uned can can get the book it'll be
linked below um it was your your your
writing style is exceptionally engaging
I think everyone that's interviewed you
from the ITV to GB news has said the
same thing um the book is linked below
if you're interested in the subject
matters we've talked about but many more
it's an exceptionally long book some
700 I don't know I got it wrong I think
it's it's over 7 771 pages2 pages with
the with the index and the and the and
the thanks and Incredibly detailed um
book into all of the key issues that
have happened over the last five six
seven years and some touches of of what
happened in your life
before link down below Boris Johnson
Unleashed thank you so much Boris thank
you very much Steve it's been an honor I
I think do I get a prize for I think
that must be that was a that how long
was that interview supposed to be
because I don't know they're always two
usually they're four sometimes they're
four hours I
see isn't this cool every single
conversation I have here on the Diary of
a CEO at the very end of it you'll know
I asked the guest to leave a question in
the Diary of a CEO and what we've done
is we've turned every single question
written in the Diary of a CEO into these
conversation cards that you can play at
home so you've got every guest we've
ever had their question and on the back
of it if you scan that QR code you get
to watch the person who answered that
question we're finally revealing
all of the questions and the people that
answered the question the brand new
version 2 updated conversation cards are
out right now at Theon conversation
cards.com they've sold out twice
instantaneously so if you are interested
in getting hold of some limited edition
conversation cards I really really
recommend acting quickly
[Music]
a